# Adaptive Factorization Network: Learning Adaptive-Order Feature Interactions
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.03276.pdf

问题背景：应该如何确定最大的特征交互的阶数，因为计算时间复杂度会增加的非常迅速，第二个问题就是如何确定哪些特征是有效的，因为很多无效的噪音特征加入很可能会降低整体的模型效果，为了解决第二个问题提出了AFM进行特征交互的attention，但是还是只能到二阶就极限了。
In this paper, we argue that existing factorization meth- ods fail to answer the above two questions appropriately. In general, they follow an enumerating-and-filtering manner to model feature interactions for prediction. The typical proce- dure is to predefine the maximum order, enumerate all the cross features within the maximum order, and then filter ir- relevant cross features via training. This procedure consists of two major drawbacks. First, predefining a maximum or- der (which is typically small) restricts model’s potential in finding discriminative cross features, because of the trade- off between expressive higher-order cross features and com-
putational complexity. Second, considering all the cross fea- tures may introduce noises and degrade the prediction per- formance, since not all the useless cross features can later be filtered out successfully.

本文模型：AFN，自适应学习任意阶的特征交叉

* To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to intro- duce the logarithmic transformation structure with neural networks to model arbitrary-order feature interactions for prediction.
* Based on the proposed logarithmic transformation layer, we propose the Adaptive Factorization Network (AFN) to learn arbitrary-order cross features and their weights adaptively from data.
* WeshowthatFMs/HOFMscanbeinterpretedastwospe- cializations of AFN, and the learned orders in AFN allow rescaling feature embeddings in different cross features.
* We conducted extensive experiments on four public datasets. The results demonstrate that the orders of the learned cross features span across a wide range, and our approach achieves superior prediction performance com- pared with the state-of-the-art methods.
